okay we're not recording and hopefully
streaming to YouTube so I can see
no worries very good anyway I'm curious
to hear your take on this but I'm a bit
thrown by presenting IPSS IPSS so here
we go anyway can I go and see this and I
casually share the link in the notes so
you can go in your own speed - yeah we
see it all right so this is saving David
a web a primer and a practical
perspective and my question to you is
what brings you to a decentralized web
did this work when still full screen
like this yep one of the things that I
really like to do when I give a talk
like this is to kind of ground the
ground in theory ground in some ideas
that people have had a while ago and I
when I was putting this talk together I
came across or irie came across that old
kind of can berners-lee rant about cool
urs don't change not sure if you come
across that before but it's since 1998's
a I'm going to quote it fairly
extensively throughout this but it's
just this argument that like if you want
people to find stuff you have to be a
really thoughtful host and I like this
framing and it turns out the Tim
berners-lee in fact is working on the
decentralized web now because it really
does follow through on a lot of the
stuff that he was right about in 1998
one of the really crucial pieces of URI
versus URL into a cool
your eyes don't change and you all are
probably pretty familiar with this is
URI as an indicator versus URL is a
locator and that's going to be really
important for decentralized web because
when you look at a URL you're saying I'm
asking with this protocol I'm going to
ask this entity at freehold etiquette
books i/o and then I'm going to look at
this particular location which is a very
different way of asking them saying hey
I'm going to ask on this protocol and
then I'm going to tell you what it is
I'm looking for I'm going to leave it up
to the protocol to tell me where to find
it give it back to me this is from Tim
berners-lee when you change a URI on
your server you can never completely
tell who will have links to the old URI
once someone follows a link and it
breaks free they generally lose
confidence in the owner of the server so
I think this is true
I think this really holds up in a lot of
cases that doesn't matter a whole lot
that people are going to lose confidence
confidence in the owner of the server
right like I would say that most of the
stuff on the Internet is not that
important the domain is not somebody you
particularly need to trust if it
disappears you like okay I'll find it
somewhere else but that is not always
the case
so I come from the environmental data
and governance initiative and this is an
organization that spring up in response
to Trump's election into 2016 and I this
is not a political talk per se my
organization obviously has some pretty
strong feelings about the government of
environmental data but that's not unique
to the Trump era it just sprung up
because there was a lot of political
route in response to that election and
what we do well what was what we
initially did was we started by taking a
lot of the government data around
environmental like proof for climate
change and environmental justice data a
lot of people who started the
organization we're really worried that
the Trump administration would come in
and either a delete it be defund the
servers or see um make it impossible to
find or be and all of these are mobile
exorcist text box not radio button B is
defund continued research at these area
areas of research which is all very
dangerous to our ability to understand
and act on real environmental issues and
real environmental justice issues
there's a lot of environmental problems
like oil and gas wells releasing benzene
for example tends to disproportionately
affect folks who are already
marginalized and can't can't afford to
be somewhere where they can breathe
cleaner air these are several of our
report covers from from this work and
one of the things that we do what one of
the things which become our primary
focus has been looking at specifically
the URLs of the websites and seeing them
every once in a while pretty regularly
into the internet archive and then
looking at what comes out of that in a
different engine that we built to see
what's changed in characterizing those
changes as benign like they updated a
date stamp or some more nefarious like
we have a report that came out last
summer which detailed a pretty large
wholesale deletion of the word climate
change and replacement with things that
meant things that were slightly less
accurate and also less what's the word
radicalizing not quite the right word
words that people feel less strongly
about and don't support climate change
even though that might be the correct
thing that will Ari's had on the webpage
so coming back to this quote when
someone follows a link it breaks it was
populist the owner of the server you can
never tell us a little inks the old URI
if the government there's a domain that
you need to trust
it matters a lot how they handle data
matters a lot have a have a move data
around and here is a thing that happened
so this is a climate do t gov and you
may ask yourself why does the Department
of Transportation have a climate change
website seems like that maybe would be
more of a Noah thing to do or a
different or a PA or to the organization
but it turns out that transportation is
responsible for I think it's about 40%
of emissions in America so it's not
crazy that they would have a website
around this this is that website as of
January 27th 2020 does it exist
who knows maybe they moved it maybe they
deleted it in many cases when data is
moved around on the internet someone
just changed the URL there are other
solutions to this there's a page in the
way back I have the browser extension
for the Wayback Machine by the Internet
Archive which is great for this sort of
thing because at least you can find the
old version of it which exists and is
hosted somewhere by the way I do think
they did take it down entirely that's
what our research around this shows but
obviously it matters a lot for your
ability to trust these gov addresses
when they just take content away and it
says something about the entity that
owns the domain as well if you rely on
a.gov page for certain information but
the website gets taken down how do you
know to look for an archive is plenty of
maybe that most people would kind of
stop there they'd say oh I don't know
maybe somebody gave me the wrong link
maybe this thing doesn't exist anymore
and then there's this other problem
which is I mean we probably trust the
Internet Archive
I trust the Internet Archive on the
other hand if you were to find an
archive of a.gov website and it was
about something that people were
tensions about could you be a hundred
percent certain that it was what was
originally there how could you prove it
how could you know it and what's more is
the archive any safer than the original
and you know the Internet Archive has
backup has servers and don't phrases
anything on most of the stuff that they
store is on servers in their building in
San Francisco which is a great as well
as long as there's no major earthquake
or anything like that in the area so oh
I'll do this a little bit faster because
you guys probably know this stuff but
this is the black fur I'm curious at
this point if anybody has questions
because this talk could be a lot it's
designed to be a lot longer than 30
minutes so so I just dive in alright so
this is this is a piece on how ipfs
works and this I mentioned that my
sister Dana helped put some of this
together she's a lot of background
research on this and I did a lot of the
making it images but we start with a
thing we want to put on the web and
here's what's in our file that we want
to put up the first thing we need to do
is turn these into standardized chunks
so in ipfs I believe that the max file
size is 256 or the micro sacrifices
Janet reduces kilobyte this is settable
it might be different for dat for
example what that means is that each of
these things become a chunk so something
that is smaller than 256 is going to go
just like putting pieces of paper in a
really big file box you just have a
couple pieces of paper in this box and
then these two are both full of the same
CSV file you end up with four chunks
from these three files in order to have
a standard
sighs and I'm assuming and I'm curious
to hear from you guys about this but I'm
assuming that the number that the major
reason for this is that you need to know
is the number of chunks that you have
will fit on the hardware you have but
then the other obvious reason why you'd
need chunking is in order to ensure that
there is some standard that you are that
you're capable of working around in
terms of moving stuff around with a
guarantee able speeds SSS the next thing
we do is cryptographic hashing where you
basically are assigning a label to your
chunk and some characters of hashing is
that it is one way you cannot run the
function backward to get the same input
and here is a table that is
significantly less complicated than what
you would use that technically fits this
one way definition where if I were to
say oh the output is 3 what number did I
put in you wouldn't be able to answer
because it's either 3 or 8 or 13 even
though this output is algorithmically
coded from the input a hash have 1/6
size which is really important for again
for issues of speed so if I put in an
input that was some word fox or a
picture of a fox even or there's much
longer sentence that contains the word
fox the output as you can see here is
still the same size well that means that
you can encode a chunk of any size into
the same relatively short string hashes
deterministic same input will always
produce the same output and it is
collision resistance if you put them a
different input it will get a different
output probabilistically so here we have
hashes of science each of our chunk we
already gone through this a little bit
but it's good for file verification
while identification and efficiency the
the most important part is that any
given file will encode differently so if
I change something in my original for
example if I had a really important file
that had to do with benzene releases in
a particular area that came up for a
legal case and I have the hash of the
Gov and everyone trusted but that was
the correct hash of the Gov and then I
had an archived version somewhere else
and it matched the hash even if the dog
I won was no longer around to compare to
we could still prove that because of the
strength of cryptographic hashing that
it was the same file that I had our pet
so then we go through a merkel directed
acyclic graph which is a long way of
saying what we're trying to do is mash
together all this different stuff into
one nice label of the same length of all
this all the other ones so here we have
all our hashes related to our different
chunks what we're going to do is we're
going to paste them together into a
doubly long stream but this is just more
information that is hashable so that's
what we do so then this hash includes
for these two hashes put together which
includes for these two hashes which
encode to your actual data and we do it
again until there's just one and then
what's cool about that is this one
because you can keep unrolling down
these layers this one short string kind
of code for all of the information you
like and this is somewhat akin to the
idea of a folder flip it's much more
versatile than that one of the things
that's extremely cool about this is that
it's really good for this verification
problem again so say I'm not just
looking for one file say I'm looking for
an entire data set any change anywhere
in any file will result in different
hash because there's that hash that I
got up here this of course is only
encoded from
the hashes that came before it so if we
modified this one it would change what
goes into here so that would change what
goes over here which changes which goes
into the final hash you'll notice do
they're completely different and you can
also do this for partial verification so
if you only cared about the image/png
you wouldn't necessarily need to unroll
everything if you knew that this hash
this part of this hash encoded for the
image piece how am i doing for time here
you have five more minutes
excellent so I'm going to go click
through accessing files as I believe you
are generally familiar with this but I
love this quote what you need to do is
have the web server look up a persistent
URI in an instant and return the fire
file wherever in your current crazy file
system has it sort of waiting for us oh
and that's exactly what decentralized
web protocols typically will do and on
ipfs that's going to be the top-level
hash that we just figured we just talked
about so you'll put this out onto the
internet and people will say oh I have
this chunk I have that chunk read of
this chunk and we'll send it back this
is really effective for static content
because one URI will always use the
exact same content back on that the URI
is actually the read key to the
directory this says okay can I have the
thing published by the author that is
signified here this is using key pairs
so this is the public key version but
the person who wrote it has the private
key and therefore it's the only person
who can push the public key and this
comes with some metadata about when it
was published and they say oh well let's
compare we all have stuff by this author
but it's attached to these different
date stamps and the newest one is what
we're going to give back to you
and this is really valuable for
something with updating contents and you
can see where these two might actually
pair really well together where you
might need to be able to trust a
particular source it much in the way you
currently trust domain but then also
have verifiable content that your source
provides through set of hashes and then
as you know when you have it you can now
Rijo stit which means that you
strengthen the entire network so coming
back to our work this is us this is a
case that we did last that Miriam arch
Steve March we had someone come to us at
the environmental data governance
initiative and said hey we are worried
about a chemical fire in Deer Park this
is something that we're going to start a
legal case around but we might not start
that legal case until ten years from now
because what's happening is that there
was a huge fire there were some chemical
tanks that was been being released the
response on the ground was terrible
because basically they got the wrong
order of magnitude on what parts per
million was dangerous
which month that they sent in
firefighters with no breathing apparatus
they sent in they sent workers back to
factories next door they sent full
children back to school next door and
benzene is a really active carcinogen
and it's very likely that essentially
everyone in the area is going to get
cancer
that's horrible what's worse is that the
folks responsible for the fire and
fighting it potentially are also the
folks who have control over the data
that would prove culpability and one of
the things that happened during this
fire which is the reason why folks work
why this was brought to us was that we
we saw that one of the monitors that is
relevant to this we've actually taken
down during
fire so there's potential for foul play
so it's really important in that case to
ensure that there is a place where you
can archive data where it is resilient
where it will not accidentally disappear
and where you can really prove that it
is the same data that was originally put
up by the entity responsible for
measuring it
so we archive this in two different ways
to put some of it on IP FS through query
which is an IPSS based database manager
data manager and we also put it up on
the Internet Archive and then this is
briefly this is a paper that I worked on
last year talking about data risk
matrices with archivists of different
types and data managers and like one of
the quote from it is great it's just
data we're considered to be at risk
unless they have dedicated plans to not
be at risk and so we developed a risk
matrix for assessing different ways that
data is stored to see whether it's see
whether it's out like to what degree it
is still in danger
basically all data is in danger in some
way but this is the data that we ended
up storing in traditional archives and
you can see this is sorry this a little
bit quick to parse in a couple of
minutes but this is what we start on
IPSS and you'll notice that between
these two slides this middle section
catastrophes dependence on service of
fire and political interference has the
potential to go much lower because it
has this potential to be spread across
so many different people across nodes
that have different levels of physical
risk and it's verifiable no matter who
has it which means it doesn't have to be
stored in a trusted archive this is all
only potentially true because it depends
on other people replicating the data
which is a whole other challenge I think
that's where I'll leave you
this is awesome thank you so much for
sharing Kelsey thank you okay well I
think we are just about out of time if
you have any questions please add them
to the document and I'll skin against
amazing thank you all and have a great
week - thanks Kelsey thank you